I was born in the city of Gorlovka, in the east of Ukraine.
Thinking about the day I was arrested, I did not think anything like that could happen
to me.
I was going to a field service meeting, but as I was passing the train station, I was asked
by a military officer to show my documents.
I showed my passport, then suddenly he said, open your bag.
In the back I had my Bible and watched our magazines.
They arrested me not because my documents were missing.
They simply said, believe it, you are our prisoner, go to the basement.
When I got there, the first thing I did was silently pray to Jehovah.
This strengthened me a lot.
The smell was terrible, dirty, smoky, it's stunk, there was no space.
Not even if everybody lay on his side.
Each day we were only given a few pieces of bread and water.
One of the detainees started to incite everyone to escape.
They took him out.
And from behind the door we could only hear the sound of the beating and his cries of pain.
When he was let back, he was severely beaten.
Of course, all became silent and nobody complained anymore.
You could say that they kept us in a state of fear.
One detainee said, I would like to address God, but I don't know how to pray.
I volunteered and said, I can pray.
Then I sung some 134.
I preached a little to the detainees and to the guards.
Ten days passed and then I was released.
They gave me my bag and said, you're free now.
When they were releasing me, one guard asked me to give him a magazine.
I felt joy that even the situation I found myself in served for spreading the good news.
A while ago we were discussing politics in social science class.
They teach you how to write the class who we would vote for.
I could see what was coming, so I offered a prayer to Jehovah and then she also stopped at my desk.
I simply answered that I don't vote.
That he looked at me all surprised, but didn't really know what to say, so she just carried on.
So I felt very relieved and happy because I said what I needed to say.
But instead of leaving it at that, she came back and asked me why I don't vote.
So I started to explain that governments will never bring lasting peace no matter how sincerely they try.
And that's when I told them about God's kingdom.
Instead of being quiet, my classmate started asking question after question.
So when will God's kingdom come then and what is the kingdom?
I'd never expected they would ask so many questions and be so interested.
So that was a really nice surprise for me as well.
And I was slightly starting to panic for I wasn't sure what to say and how to explain it all properly.
And all of a sudden the idea came to me to show the video.
So feeling a bit more confident, I told the class that I had a video that would exactly explain what God's kingdom is.
All the students seemed enthusiastic and wanted to see it.
So I got up and walked to the computer, but it wasn't working.
I was so disappointed for I really have the feeling apparently I didn't know how I found it hard to explain
but the video could and now there was no way to show them.
But some of my classmates didn't give up so easily.
They asked me, isn't there another way we can still watch the video for they had really become interested.
So then I came up with the idea to add it to our school's group app for the class and they liked it.
So I did that.
Almost at once I received a reply from a student who wasn't in my social science class asking,
so when will God's kingdom come then?
So here I am thinking, how should I respond?
When before I could even reply, another girl also not in my social science class answers,
well you should have watched the whole video for then you would have seen that you need to read the good news brochure.
So in the end I didn't have to say or do anything, people were responding for me.
And later on I also heard two girls talking about God's kingdom,
even though I'd never spoken to them about it, nor send them anything, that was pretty special too.
I wouldn't call myself a talkative person.
When in a crowd I prefer to stay in the background and not say too much.
That is why I truly believe that Jehovah gives us courage.
Because normally I probably would never have stood up, but with Jehovah's help I did.